GOLD RATE AGENT — LEARNING NOTES

//08-29-2026

1.  JavaScript

-   JavaScript is the programming language we are using to write the
    application logic.
-   It provides things like variables, functions, strings, numbers,
    objects, async/await, etc.

2.  Node.js

-   Node.js lets us run JavaScript outside a web browser, such as from
    the Windows terminal.
-   We use node filename.js to execute a JavaScript file.

3.  npm

-   npm is the package manager that comes with Node.js.
-   npm init -y creates package.json, which describes our Node.js
    project.
-   npm install selenium-webdriver installs Selenium and records the
    dependency in package.json.
-   package-lock.json records the exact dependency versions/tree used
    for the project.
-   node_modules/ contains installed packages and should not be
    committed to Git.

4.  package.json

-   Project configuration file.
-   Contains project information, scripts, and dependencies.
-   We do NOT run npm init every time we change code. It is mainly for
    creating/initializing the project.

5.  Selenium WebDriver

-   Selenium lets our JavaScript program control a real browser.
-   In our project, Selenium launches Chromium/Chrome, opens the
    gold-rate website, finds the gold-rate element, and reads its value.

6.  Builder / driver

-   new Builder().forBrowser("chrome").build() creates the browser
    WebDriver.
-   driver is our object for controlling the browser.
-   Think of driver like the person driving the browser according to our
    instructions.

7.  driver.get()

-   await driver.get("URL") tells the browser to navigate to a website.

8.  DOM

-   DOM = Document Object Model.
-   It is the browser’s in-memory tree/object representation of the
    webpage.
-   HTML elements become objects/nodes in this tree.
-   A DOM element is one particular element in that tree, such as a
    <span>, <div>, or <button>.
-   Selenium interacts with the live DOM.

9.  HTML element

-   Example: <span id="goldrate_22ct" class="gold_rate">14800.00</span>
-   The element is the <span>.
-   It can have attributes such as id and class, and it can contain text
    such as 14800.00.

10. By.id()

-   By.id("goldrate_22ct") is a Selenium locator.
-   A locator tells Selenium how to identify the element we want.
-   It is NOT the element itself.

11. WebElement

-   driver.findElement(...) returns a Selenium WebElement representing
    the actual element Selenium found.
-   Example: goldElement represents the <span> containing the gold rate.

12. driver.findElement()

-   await driver.findElement(By.id("goldrate_22ct")) finds an element
    using the given locator.

13. getAttribute()

-   await goldElement.getAttribute("textContent") reads the requested
    property/attribute from the element.
-   For our gold-rate element, it gives us "14800.00".

14. Explicit wait

-   driver.wait() lets Selenium wait for a condition instead of blindly
    sleeping for a fixed amount of time.
-   until.elementLocated(By.id("goldrate_22ct")) defines the condition:
    wait until the element can be located.
-   10000 means the maximum wait is 10,000 milliseconds = 10 seconds.
-   const goldElement = await driver.wait(...) waits and gives us the
    found element when the condition succeeds.

15. sleep()

-   driver.sleep(5000) is a fixed 5-second delay.
-   We used it initially to observe the browser, but explicit waits are
    better when we are waiting for a specific page condition.

16. async

-   async marks a JavaScript function as asynchronous.
-   It allows us to use await inside the function.
-   Example: async function getGoldRate(driver) { ... }

17. await

-   await waits for an asynchronous operation to finish and gives us its
    result before the function continues.
-   Examples: await driver.get(...) await driver.wait(...)
    await goldElement.getAttribute(...)

18. Functions

-   A function is a reusable block of code that performs a job.
-   getGoldRate(driver) performs the job of getting the gold rate.
-   createGoldMessage(goldRate) performs the job of creating the
    message.
-   return sends a value back to the code that called the function.

19. Number()

-   The website gives us "14800.00" as text/string.
-   Number("14800.00") converts that string into the number 14800.
-   Numbers can then be used reliably for mathematical operations.

20. typeof

-   typeof value tells us the JavaScript data type.
-   Example: typeof "14800.00" → "string" typeof 14800 → "number"

21. Template literals

-   Backticks allow us to insert JavaScript values into text.
-   Example: `Todays gold price is Rs. ${goldRate}`
-   ${goldRate} is replaced with the value of goldRate.

22. toLocaleString()

-   goldRate.toLocaleString("en-IN") formats a number using Indian
    number formatting.
-   Example: 14800 → 14,800; larger values can use Indian grouping such
    as 1,25,000.

23. CommonJS modules

-   We split our application across multiple .js files.
-   module.exports = { getGoldRate }; makes getGoldRate available to
    another file.
-   const { getGoldRate } = require("./gold-scraper"); imports the
    exported function.
-   ./ means the local/current folder.
-   require("selenium-webdriver") refers to an installed package rather
    than our own local file.

24. Current project structure

-   selenium-test.js coordinates the application and controls the
    browser.
-   gold-scraper.js contains the logic for finding and reading the gold
    rate.
-   message-generator.js converts the number into the WhatsApp-ready
    message text.
-   package.json and package-lock.json describe dependencies.
-   .gitignore tells Git what not to track.
-   node_modules/ contains installed dependencies.

25. try / catch

-   try contains code we want to attempt.
-   catch (error) handles an error if something inside try fails.
-   error.message gives a readable description of the error.
-   This prevents failures from being completely unhandled.

26. finally

-   finally runs whether the operation succeeds or fails.
-   We use it for cleanup: await driver.quit();
-   This helps ensure the browser is closed even after an error.

27. driver.quit()

-   Closes the browser session and ends the WebDriver session.

28. Git

-   Git is a version-control system.
-   It keeps a history of project changes and lets us create snapshots
    called commits.
-   Git is different from GitHub: Git runs locally; GitHub hosts Git
    repositories online.

29. git init

-   git init turns the current project folder into a Git repository.
-   It creates the hidden .git/ directory where Git stores
    repository/history information.

30. git status

-   git status shows the current state of the Git repository.
-   It tells us which files are untracked, staged, or changed.

31. .gitignore

-   .gitignore lists files/folders Git should ignore.
-   We created it in C:\Gold.
-   It contains: node_modules/
-   This prevents the large dependency folder from being tracked.

32. git add

-   git add . stages the changes in the current directory for the next
    commit.
-   The staging area is the place where we choose what will go into the
    next snapshot.

33. git commit

-   git commit -m "Initial gold rate scraper" creates a permanent local
    snapshot of the staged files.
-   The commit gets a unique ID.
-   Our first commit ID began with 07255ee.

34. Git branches

-   A branch is a line of development/history in a Git repository.
-   We renamed our local branch from master to main.
-   git branch -M main renamed the current branch to main.

35. Git remote

-   A remote is another Git repository that our local repository knows
    about.
-   We added GitHub as a remote named origin.
-   git remote -v shows the remote URLs.

36. origin

-   origin is simply the nickname we gave our GitHub repository.
-   It points to our online gold-rate-agent repository.

37. git push

-   git push -u origin main sends our local main branch/commits to
    GitHub.
-   -u sets the upstream relationship so future pushes can usually use
    just git push.
-   After the first push, local main tracks origin/main.

38. GitHub authentication

-   GitHub does not accept normal account passwords for Git operations
    over HTTPS.
-   Git Credential Manager (GCM) handled our authentication.
-   We confirmed GCM was installed with:
    git credential-manager --version

39. Git workflow we learned

-   Make/change code
-   git status
-   git add .
-   git commit -m "Describe the change"
-   git push

40. Current project status

-   Selenium successfully opens the website and reads the Chennai 22K
    gold rate.
-   The current example rate was 14800.
-   The message generator successfully creates:
    Todays gold price is Rs. 14,800
-   The project is committed and pushed to GitHub.

GOLD RATE AGENT — LEARNING NOTES

// 08-30-2026

41. REST API

-   API = Application Programming Interface.
-   A REST API allows one application to communicate with another
    application over HTTP.
-   Our project uses the Telegram Bot API to send messages from our
    Node.js application to Telegram.
-   Think of an API as a defined way for our program to ask another
    system to perform an operation.

42. HTTP Methods

-   GET → usually used to retrieve data.
-   POST → usually used to send/create data.
-   PUT → usually used to update/replace data.
-   DELETE → usually used to delete data.
-   Our Telegram message request uses POST because we are sending data
    to Telegram.

43. API Endpoint

-   An endpoint is a specific URL provided by an API for a particular
    operation.
-   Our Telegram API endpoint is used to send a message.
-   The endpoint receives our request and returns a response.

44. API Request

-   An API request contains information needed by the server to perform
    an operation.
-   Common parts include:
    -   HTTP method
    -   URL/endpoint
    -   headers
    -   request body
    -   authentication/token when required

45. HTTP Headers

-   Headers provide additional information about an HTTP request.
-   We used: Content-Type: application/json
-   This tells Telegram that the request body is JSON data.

46. JSON

-   JSON = JavaScript Object Notation.
-   It is a common format for exchanging data between applications.
-   Example: { "chat_id": -5397579709, "text": "Hello" }
-   JavaScript objects can be converted into JSON when sending API
    requests.

47. Request Body

-   The request body contains the actual data we send to the API.
-   Our Telegram request body contains:
    -   chat_id → identifies where the message should be sent.
    -   text → contains the message we want Telegram to send.

48. Telegram Bot API

-   Telegram provides an HTTP-based Bot API that allows our program to
    communicate with a Telegram bot.
-   Our bot is ChennaiGoldRateBot.
-   We successfully used the API to send messages to our Telegram group.

49. Telegram Chat ID

-   The chat_id identifies the Telegram conversation/group where the bot
    should send the message.
-   Our group has a negative chat ID because it is a Telegram group.
-   We obtained the chat ID from Telegram’s update response.

50. API Response

-   After sending an API request, the server returns a response.
-   Telegram returns JSON containing information such as:
    -   ok
    -   result
    -   message details
-   Example: "ok": true means Telegram successfully processed the
    request.

51. fetch()

-   fetch() is used by Node.js to make HTTP requests.
-   Example: fetch(url, { method: "POST", ... })
-   It allows our JavaScript application to communicate with the
    Telegram API.

52. await fetch()

-   await fetch(...) waits for the HTTP request to complete.
-   The returned response is stored in a variable such as:
    const response = await fetch(...)

53. response.json()

-   await response.json() reads the response body and converts JSON into
    a JavaScript object.
-   Example: const result = await response.json();

54. API-level error checking

-   A successful HTTP request does not always mean the requested
    operation succeeded.
-   We check Telegram’s API response: if (!result.ok) { ... }
-   If Telegram reports failure, we create an error with:
    throw new Error(...)

55. throw

-   throw manually raises an error.
-   Example: throw new Error("Something went wrong");
-   The error can then be handled by a surrounding catch.

56. Error Propagation

-   An error can move from a lower-level function to the function that
    called it.
-   Our telegram-sender.js catches an error, logs it, and uses
    throw error to pass it back to gold-agent.js.
-   gold-agent.js can then handle the failure.

57. try / catch / finally in the Agent

-   try contains the main work:
    -   open website
    -   get gold rate
    -   generate message
    -   send Telegram message
-   catch handles failures and logs the error.
-   finally performs cleanup regardless of success/failure.
-   Our cleanup is: await driver.quit();

58. Error Message vs Stack Trace

-   error.message gives the main readable error message.
-   console.error(error) prints the complete error, including the stack
    trace.
-   We use the shorter error.message for our application log and the
    full error in the console for development/debugging.

59. Selenium Timeout Error

-   Selenium does not necessarily report an HTTP 404 directly when a
    webpage URL is invalid.
-   The browser can load a page that does not contain the expected
    element.
-   Our scraper then waits for: By.id("goldrate_22ct")
-   If the element isn’t found within 10 seconds, Selenium throws a
    TimeoutError.
-   This is a DOM/element-level failure rather than directly reporting
    an HTTP 404.

60. logger.js

-   We created a separate logger.js module for application logging.
-   It contains a reusable log() function.
-   module.exports = { log }; makes the function available to other
    files.

61. Node.js File System (fs)

-   fs is Node.js’s built-in File System module.
-   We use: const fs = require("fs");
-   It allows Node.js to work with files.

62. appendFileSync()

-   fs.appendFileSync() adds text to the end of a file.
-   It does not overwrite existing log entries.
-   Example: fs.appendFileSync("gold-agent.log", logMessage);
-   Sync means the operation completes before the program continues.

63. Application Logging

-   Logging records what the application is doing.
-   Our logger writes messages to: gold-agent.log
-   It also prints the same log message to the console.
-   This gives us:
    -   persistent history in the log file
    -   immediate visibility in the terminal

64. Log Timestamp

-   We use: new Date().toLocaleString("en-IN")
-   This adds the date and time to every application log entry.
-   This is useful for troubleshooting scheduled/background executions.

65. Current Application Log

-   Our successful execution produces entries similar to:
    Gold agent started Gold rate retrieved: 14505
    Message generated: Todays gold price is Rs. 14,505
    Telegram message sent successfully Gold agent finished

66. Runtime Files vs Source Code

-   gold-agent.log is a runtime-generated file.
-   Runtime files that continuously change generally should not be
    committed to Git.
-   We added: gold-agent.log to .gitignore.

67. .env and Secrets

-   .env contains sensitive configuration such as the Telegram bot
    token.
-   .env must not be committed to GitHub.
-   We added .env to .gitignore.
-   Environment variables allow the application to use secrets without
    hard-coding them into source code.

68. Windows Task Scheduler

-   Task Scheduler is Windows’ built-in mechanism for running programs
    automatically according to a schedule.
-   It is conceptually similar to an Autosys job scheduler.
-   The scheduler decides WHEN to run the application.
-   Our Node.js application decides WHAT work to perform.

69. Task Scheduler Action

-   We configured Task Scheduler to run:
    C:\Program Files\nodejs\node.exe
-   Arguments: "C:\Gold\gold-agent.js"
-   Start in: C:\Gold
-   This is effectively equivalent to running:
    node C:\Gold\gold-agent.js

70. Task Scheduler Trigger

-   A trigger defines WHEN a scheduled task should run.
-   We created two triggers for the Gold Rate Agent.

71. AM Schedule

-   Monday through Saturday.
-   Starts at 09:15 AM.
-   Repeats every 5 minutes.
-   Runs for 1 hour.
-   Therefore the intended run times are: 09:15, 09:20, 09:25, … 10:15.
-   Sunday is excluded.

72. PM Schedule

-   Monday through Saturday.
-   Starts at 03:00 PM.
-   Repeats every 15 minutes.
-   Runs for 4 hours.
-   Therefore the intended run times are: 15:00, 15:15, 15:30, … 19:00.
-   Sunday is excluded.

73. Task Scheduler “Run on Demand”

-   Allow task to be run on demand allows us to manually execute the
    scheduled task.
-   We used this to test the complete Gold Rate Agent without waiting
    for the scheduled time.

74. Task Scheduler Security

-   We selected: Run only when user is logged on
-   This is suitable for our current local Windows development/testing
    setup.
-   It keeps the task associated with the logged-in Windows desktop
    session.

75. Task Scheduler Conditions

-   We left unnecessary restrictions disabled so Windows does not
    prevent the task from running because of unrelated idle/power
    conditions.

76. Task Scheduler Overlapping Runs

-   We kept:
    If the task is already running → Do not start a new instance
-   This prevents multiple copies of the Gold Rate Agent from running
    simultaneously.
-   This is important because our AM schedule starts a new run every 5
    minutes.

77. Local Scheduling vs Azure Scheduling

-   Windows Task Scheduler belongs to the local Windows machine.
-   It is useful for development/testing on our PC.
-   When we move the application to Azure, we will normally use an Azure
    scheduling mechanism instead.
-   The basic concept remains the same: Scheduler → starts application →
    application performs work.

78. Autosys Comparison

-   Autosys scheduler ≈ Azure/Windows scheduling mechanism.
-   Autosys job execution ≈ starting our Node.js application.
-   Job definition ≈ program + arguments + configuration + schedule.
-   The core concept is: Scheduler decides WHEN Application decides WHAT

79. Current Complete Architecture

-   gold-agent.js is the main/orchestrator file.
-   gold-scraper.js gets the live gold rate using Selenium.
-   message-generator.js formats the gold rate into a message.
-   telegram-sender.js sends the message through the Telegram Bot API.
-   logger.js records application activity.
-   .env stores secrets/configuration.
-   Windows Task Scheduler starts gold-agent.js automatically.

80. Current End-to-End Flow

-   Windows Task Scheduler triggers the application.
-   Node.js starts gold-agent.js.
-   Selenium opens Chromium.
-   The gold website is opened.
-   getGoldRate(driver) finds the gold-rate DOM element.
-   The value is converted from string to number.
-   createGoldMessage(goldRate) creates the final text.
-   sendTelegramMessage(message) sends it through the Telegram API.
-   Success/failure is recorded in gold-agent.log.
-   finally calls driver.quit() to close Chromium.
-   The Node.js process finishes.

81. Current Project Status

-   Complete local Gold Rate Agent is working.
-   Telegram delivery is working.
-   Error handling is working.
-   Logging is working.
-   Windows Task Scheduler is working.
-   The scheduled task has been manually tested successfully.
-   GitHub contains the latest committed version.
-   .env and gold-agent.log are excluded from Git.
-   Next major phase: review/production hardening and then Azure
    deployment/scheduling.

// 08-30-2026 // 08-30-2026 — DOCKER

82. Docker

-   Docker is a platform for packaging and running applications in
    isolated containers.
-   It lets us package the application together with the environment it
    needs.
-   Our goal is to make the Gold Rate Agent portable so the same
    application can eventually run in Azure.

83. Docker CLI and Docker Engine

-   docker --version confirms the Docker CLI is installed.
-   docker info confirms the Docker Engine is running and provides
    information about the Docker environment.
-   Our Docker setup uses Docker Desktop on Windows with a Linux engine
    through WSL2.
-   Important environment details we observed:
    -   Docker version: 29.7.2
    -   Context: desktop-linux
    -   Operating system: Docker Desktop
    -   OS type: Linux
    -   Architecture: x86_64

84. Docker Image

-   A Docker image is a packaged blueprint used to create containers.
-   Think: Image = blueprint/template
-   Our image is named: gold-rate-agent:latest
-   We built it with: docker build -t gold-rate-agent .

85. Docker Container

-   A container is a running instance of a Docker image.
-   Think: Image → docker run → Container
-   A container is intended to be disposable/ephemeral.
-   Our Gold Rate Agent container starts, performs its work, and exits.

86. Dockerfile

-   A Dockerfile contains instructions for building a Docker image.
-   Our Dockerfile uses: FROM node:24-bookworm
-   FROM selects the base image/environment.
-   WORKDIR /app sets the working directory inside the container.
-   COPY package*.json ./ copies package.json and package-lock.json.
-   RUN npm ci installs the Node.js dependencies from the lockfile.
-   COPY ... copies the application source files into the image.
-   CMD ["node", "gold-agent.js"] defines the command that runs when the
    container starts.

87. Docker Build Context

-   The . in: docker build -t gold-rate-agent . means the current
    directory is used as the Docker build context.
-   Docker uses the build context when processing COPY instructions.

88. .dockerignore

-   .dockerignore controls which files are excluded from the Docker
    build context.
-   It is similar in concept to .gitignore, but it controls what Docker
    can copy during a build.
-   Our .dockerignore excludes:
    -   node_modules/
    -   .env
    -   gold-agent.log
    -   last-gold-rate.json
    -   .git/
    -   .gitignore
    -   Notes/
-   This prevents secrets, runtime files, Git internals, and unnecessary
    development files from being copied into the image.

89. Docker Dependencies

-   We do not copy our local node_modules/ into the image.
-   The image installs dependencies itself using: npm ci
-   package.json and package-lock.json are the Node.js dependency
    definition for the container.

90. Docker + Chromium

-   The initial image contained Node.js, npm dependencies, and our
    application, but Chromium was not installed.
-   The first container run failed with:
    Server terminated early with status 127
-   We learned that the Docker image needs a browser because Selenium
    controls Chromium/Chrome.
-   We added Chromium to the image with:
    apt-get update && apt-get install -y chromium
-   We remove temporary package metadata with:
    rm -rf /var/lib/apt/lists/*

91. Headless Chromium

-   A container normally does not have a graphical desktop where a
    browser window can be displayed.
-   We configured Selenium/Chrome options with: --headless
-   Headless mode allows Chromium to run without a visible browser
    window.
-   This is appropriate for a cloud/container environment.

92. Chrome Container Flags

-   We added: --headless --no-sandbox --disable-dev-shm-usage
-   --headless runs Chromium without a GUI.
-   --no-sandbox helps Chromium run in our container environment where
    the browser sandbox can have compatibility issues, especially when
    running as root.
-   --disable-dev-shm-usage avoids Chromium problems caused by limited
    shared memory in some container environments.
-   These options were required to get Selenium + Chromium working
    inside our container.

93. Selenium + Docker Flow

-   Our working container flow is: Docker Container → Node.js → Selenium
    → Headless Chromium → Gold website → Gold rate → Telegram API
-   We successfully ran this complete flow inside Docker.

94. Docker Environment Variables

-   We ran the container using:
    docker run --rm --env-file .env gold-rate-agent
-   --env-file .env supplies environment variables to the container at
    runtime.
-   This does NOT copy .env into the image.
-   This is preferable to baking secrets such as the Telegram bot token
    into the Docker image.
-   In Azure, the same concept will be handled using cloud
    environment/secrets configuration rather than committing .env.

95. Container Filesystem Is Ephemeral

-   A normal container filesystem should not be treated as permanent
    storage.
-   We proved this by running the container twice with --rm.
-   The first container saved: last-gold-rate.json
-   After the container exited and was removed, the second container
    started with: Previous gold rate: null
-   This demonstrated:
    Container deleted → container filesystem/data disappears

96. Docker Volume

-   A Docker volume provides persistent storage outside the container’s
    temporary filesystem.
-   We created: gold-rate-state
-   We mounted it into the container at: /app/data
-   Mount command: --mount source=gold-rate-state,target=/app/data
-   Data written to the mounted volume survives container deletion.

97. Docker Volume Persistence Test

-   First run with the volume: Previous gold rate: null → Telegram
    message sent → saved 14505
-   Second run with the same volume: Previous gold rate: 14505 → gold
    rate unchanged → Telegram message not sent
-   This proved that the Docker volume successfully persisted the state
    between separate containers.

98. Configurable State File

-   We changed the state location to:
    process.env.STATE_FILE || "last-gold-rate.json"
-   This allows the same application code to work in different
    environments.
-   Windows can use the default: last-gold-rate.json
-   Docker can use: /app/data/last-gold-rate.json
-   The application code stays the same while the environment controls
    the storage location.

99. Docker State Mount

-   Our Docker test uses: -e STATE_FILE=/app/data/last-gold-rate.json
-   Together with: --mount source=gold-rate-state,target=/app/data
-   This means: STATE_FILE → /app/data/last-gold-rate.json → Docker
    volume gold-rate-state → persistent state

100. Docker Image Tags

-   gold-rate-agent:latest is the image name plus tag.
-   latest is the default tag when no tag is specified.
-   Later, for production/cloud deployment, we can use explicit version
    tags instead of relying only on latest.

101. Docker Image Cleanup

-   Repeated builds can leave dangling images shown as: <none>
-   We cleaned these safely with: docker image prune
-   docker image prune removes dangling images.
-   We should avoid aggressive commands such as docker system prune -a
    unless we deliberately want broader cleanup.
-   Docker image layers can be shared, so removing dangling image
    references does not always reclaim disk space.

102. Docker Image Size

-   Our working image is relatively large, around 1.8 GB as displayed by
    Docker Desktop.
-   Much of the size comes from the Node.js base image and
    Chromium/browser dependencies.
-   We have not optimized the image yet.
-   Production image-size optimization is a future step before Azure
    deployment.

103. Docker vs Windows Application

-   The same Gold Rate Agent code was tested in both environments:
    -   Windows directly with node gold-agent.js
    -   Docker container with docker run ...
-   Both environments successfully retrieved the gold rate.
-   Windows used the default state file.
-   Docker used the mounted volume and configurable STATE_FILE.

104. Docker Timezone Difference

-   We observed that Windows displayed local IST time while the Linux
    Docker container displayed UTC.
-   Example:
    -   Windows: approximately 4:51 PM IST
    -   Docker: approximately 11:20 AM UTC
-   The difference is 5 hours 30 minutes, which corresponds to IST being
    UTC+5:30.
-   This demonstrated that different execution environments can have
    different system timezones.
-   For cloud deployment, timezone handling and scheduling should be
    made explicit rather than relying on the machine’s local timezone.
-   We have not yet changed the application’s timezone handling.

105. Docker Runtime vs Source Code

-   Source code and dependencies belong in the Docker image.
-   Secrets and runtime state should be supplied externally.
-   Conceptually: Docker Image = application + dependencies
    Container runtime = configuration + secrets + persistent storage

106. Docker + Git

-   We added and committed:
    -   Dockerfile
    -   .dockerignore
    -   Docker-related application changes
-   The Docker checkpoint was committed and pushed to GitHub.
-   The working tree was clean after the commit.

107. Current Docker Architecture

-   Current architecture: Dockerfile → docker build →
    gold-rate-agent:latest → docker run → temporary container →
    Selenium + headless Chromium → gold website → Telegram API
-   Persistent state is supplied separately through: gold-rate-state
    Docker volume.

108. Important Docker Concepts Learned

-   Image = packaged blueprint.
-   Container = running instance of an image.
-   Dockerfile = instructions for building an image.
-   .dockerignore = controls files sent into the build context.
-   Volume = persistent storage for container data.
-   Environment variable = runtime configuration.
-   Container filesystem = temporary/ephemeral by default.
-   docker build = build an image.
-   docker run = create/start a container from an image.
-   docker image prune = clean dangling images.

109. Current Project Status After Docker

-   Gold Rate Agent works directly on Windows.
-   Gold Rate Agent works inside Docker.
-   Selenium works with headless Chromium inside Docker.
-   Telegram API delivery works inside Docker.
-   Application state persists through a Docker volume.
-   Secrets are supplied through environment variables rather than
    copied into the image.
-   Dockerfile and .dockerignore are committed to GitHub.
-   Next major phase: Docker production hardening/image optimization,
    then Azure deployment and scheduling.

// 08-30-2026
